---
layout: default
category: schedule
title: "WFP GeoNode"
presenter: Dimitris Karakostis & Francesco Stompanato
day: wednesday
start: 10:30AM
end: 10:45AM
---

WFP GeoNode is the WFP’s corporate web GIS to publish and share geospatial data and maps. The first version of this software was released in 2012 and since then It has been improved taking into consideration different types of users, GIS professionals or user without any GIS skill. WFP GeoNode provides easy to use tools that allow WFP employees and partners to easily access geographic information, share data and create interactive maps.

All the information in the WFP GeoNode database can be easily consumed by other internal or external web pages. For instance OPweb relies on WFP GeoNode platform for GIS related content, data and maps. WFP GeoNode is also recognized by the broader humanitarian community as a valid source of Geographic information. For example the HDX platform relies on WFP GeoNode for data related to Logistics and WFP locations.

Moreover several Regional Bureaus and Country Offices have initiated long term projects, which are based on WFP GeoNode platform. For example, the Food Security Atlas of Kyrgyz Republic and the Afghanistan Security Access.

Recent developments have added additional functionalities to the platform, such as:

* the Layer Filtering functionality, which gives the option to download selected parts of a layer by using a Query Builder or a Map tool.
* the Create Layer functionality, which gives the possibility to create new empty layers or ones with administrative boundaries.
* the Edit Data functionality, which can be used to edit (non)spatial data of a layer.

[WFP GeoNode](http://geonode.wfp.org/)

[wfp-ose](https://github.com/wfp-ose/) on GitHub
