---
layout: default
category: schedule
title: "The RASOR platform "
presenter: "Lauro Rossi"
day: wednesday
start: 02:00PM
end: 02:15PM
---

The [RASOR](http://www.rasor-project.eu/) (Rapid Analysis and Spatialisation Of Risk) platform is aimed to perform multi-hazard risk analysis to support the full cycle of disaster management, including targeted support to critical infrastructure monitoring and climate change impact assessment. RASOR relies on GeoNode as main layers repository, importing tool and users database management.

A scenario-driven query system allow users to simulate future scenarios based on existing and assumed conditions, to compare with historical scenarios, and to model multi-hazard risk both before and during an event. RASOR adapts the newly developed 12m resolution TanDEM-X Digital Elevation Model (DEM) to risk management applications, using it as a base layer to develop specific disaster scenarios. Cascading risk across hazard is also considered. Managers can, for example, determine how flood risk may change after an earthquake, due to damages on flood defenses, or assess risk to Critical Infrastructure Systems in terms of the residual functionality of a given system (e.g. energy, transport, health). Public authorities can determine the potential impact of sea surge scenarios based on actual, accurate subsidence and its effect on flood defence infrastructure. RASOR allows managers to perform quantitative cost-benefit analysis on the implementation of disaster mitigation measure.

RASOR is open-source and freely available.
