---
layout: default
category: schedule
title: CIDEHUS Digital Atlas: the past digitally present.
presenter: Ivo Santos
day: wednesday
start: 03:45PM
end: 04:00PM
type: session
---

CIDEHUS [1] Digital Atlas is a GeoNode based SDI that aims to freely distribute historical cartography and outputs from the research on Digital Humanities.  This paper focus on the methodology and characteristics of the SDI we are trying to implement. Some of these characteristics define the way in which it has to be build.

For example: data outputs in the humanities research fields are very heterogeneous and also the authors’ GIS skills are diverse; different representations of time, i.e. relative and absolute dates (century, year, radiocarbon calibrated data…); different ways in which the data is represented (most of them not following any standard); it is necessary local and world historical cartography (raster); to deal with huge semantic databases.

Our goal is to provide and maintain a current SDI with search and faceting capacity for spatial and temporal data sources dealing with these different characteristics.

In order to so, we are trying to move forward Big Data, [GeoSPARQL](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GeoSPARQL) and other related tools to make it efficient and fast, but also to setup an API to provide links to a future touristic mobile application. Finally, we are considering to implement some changes in GeoNode, such as new ways to represent time, since we count with different representations of temporal spans.

[1] CIDEHUS is a Portuguese Research Unit devoted to everything related with present and past (South of Portugal and South of Europe and the geographies connected with these in a historical approach).
