---
layout: default
category: schedule
title: "Harvard Hypermap"
presenter: Paolo Corti
day: wednesday
start: 11:15AM
end: 11:30AM
---

A Spatial Data Infrastructure (SDI) is a framework of geospatial data, metadata, users and tools
intended to provide an efficient and flexible way to use spatial information. One of the key
software components of an SDI is the catalogue service which is needed to discover, query, and
manage the metadata. Catalogue services in an SDI are typically based on the Open Geospatial
Consortium (OGC) Catalogue Service for the Web (CSW) standard which defines common
interfaces for accessing the metadata information.
A search engine is a software system capable of supporting fast and reliable search, which may
use “any means necessary” to get users to the resources they need quickly and efficiently. These
techniques may include features such as full text search, natural language processing, weighted
results, fuzzy tolerance results, faceting, hit highlighting, recommendations, feedback
mechanisms based on log mining, usage statistic gathering, and many others. In this paper we
will be focusing on improving geospatial search with a search engine platform that uses Lucene,
a Java-based search library, at its core.
In work funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Centre for Geographic
Analysis (CGA) at Harvard University is in the process of re-engineering the search component
of its public domain SDI (WorldMap http://worldmap.harvard.edu) which is based on the
GeoNode platform. In the process the CGA has developed Harvard Hypermap (HHypermap), a
map services registry and search platform independent from WorldMap.
The goal of HHypermap is to provide a framework for building and maintaining a comprehensive
registry of web map services, and because such a registry is expected to be large, the system
supports the development of clients with modern search capabilities such as spatial and temporal
faceting and instant previews via an open API. Behind the scenes HHypermap scalably harvests
OGC and Esri service metadata from distributed servers, organizes that information, and pushes it
to a search engine. The system monitors services for reliability and uses that to improve search.
End users will be able to search the SDI metadata using standard interfaces provided by the
internal CSW catalogue, and will benefit from the enhanced search possibilities provided by an
advanced search engine. HHypermap is built on an open source software stack.

[Harvard Hypermap](http://hh.worldmap.harvard.edu/)
[WorldMap](http://worldmap.harvard.edu/)
